recording okay hi everyone welcome to
the ipfs core implementations weekly
sync
it's November the 4th if you're here
please add your name to the attendees
list I've just put the link to the
hackpad in the chat and if you are here
at some point please add your weekly
update for async review to the bottom of
the hackpad
and we will not go over the in a meeting
but people can look at it and see what
you've been doing for the past week and
comment and ask you questions when this
the meeting notes get PR to the team
management repo so thank you please and
your update if you are here we have a
note taker Jacob thank you very much and
now we shall begin by going through the
initiatives
and we will start with the upgraded
release process so I have to say that I
think last week I said 0:39 actually got
released and we we started the 0:40
release issue but it we have not yet
branched off and I was meant to do that
today but I did not do that but there's
a couple of things in there in this next
release which is a repo migration tool
which I'm currently waiting kind of
blocked I guess on a pull request for
that Adam is is working on this Adam is
an awesome contributor who has been
doing a whole bunch of stuff but he has
a job and he does not always have time
to continue things so I might have to
pull that over the line so yeah that's
that's the status of that maybe that
gets dropped from this release anyway so
that's the only thing I have to say
about the release process for the chase
of your first Steven do you have
anything on go ipfs releasing
cool
any questions no all right
is anyone here to update us on the
testing infra and process Stephen you're
probably adjacent to lots of test ground
folks how's it going to you do you know
yeah I mean I don't know this really
should give here yeah I mean let's say
let's change since last week so we just
got like I think it was I kept anyhow it
does miss right now at the moment she
was trying to get as many notes as he
can
running the DHT test I need you with us
today today were trying to get that done
basically trying to spinning up and I'm
basically working automatically and then
also get like some basic network
controls like latency is like that done
that's why they didn't have their
do you know if Dirk's bit swap and
changes have been are being tested or
has progressed any further so the best
of all changes have a test plan which is
just it's goofing test they have not
been tested on desperate they're still
trying to automate the actual like
spinning off the machines and stuff like
that so right now even locally just been
your old machine but like you can't you
can't set light in just a moment which
kind of means that you can't do any real
world tests you can't set any limits you
can't put it on EWS like that so that's
where gotcha okay any questions for
anyone else on that alright
in which case let us move on to
subdomain gateway Lydell what's going on
you yes yep I'm here
shut up that is a PID like my updates
are mostly from the djursland the poor
request to add support for peers are
represented the series for JSP ID
I believe I addressed the feedback if
you have spare time Allen just take the
final I think that emerged just a little
bit ago I hope that's perfect
yep and I also while I was at that I
realized we sort of could add support
for I can like see IDs in I pianist
paths without sort of like being blocked
by this entire I think refractor to
bubble up this PID change and if you
look at the second PR it's basically
like one line change that does not
require any any third-party dependency
bumps so I guess we could ship that and
I've added in that PR to do to
eventually switch to a new version of
PID like details on on the PR but I feel
it's pretty useful to have it I it's
mostly adding test for CID v1 on IP and
s Parks actual change is just one line
and I believe that's that's it it's
separate topic separate topic is
switching to a single version of JSP ID
I sort of have those changes like on my
machine and I feel I can like submit
them as a separate PR to not block this
change so I probably will submit them as
a a PR draft so if someone is it gets
eventually to the peer ID because I
don't know how to bubble that up on the
b2b side but at least on the J side we
will see what's the scope of changes
require yep I guess that's it
cool thank you I'd oh yeah I will look
at that PR and please do submit the
other one for the icing peer ID if you
have it
let me see the helpful cool
Lydell all right now moving swiftly on
we are distributed signaling still on
hold
yes correct yes still you don't hold IP
NS Aiden and Hugo who forgot we've got I
didn't hear at least yeah so the big
discovery uh pub/sub PR landed and
there's been a release so huzzah
next up is integrating that into the pub
sub router and then bubbling that up
into go idea fest so should be should be
fairly quick because these changes have
already been made and reverted they just
need to be redone again and yeah
hopefully that should be available and
if s Masterson
nice that sounds awesome so this is IP
NS / pub/sub yeah yeah exactly we can
still use the DNA the IPS our DNS spec
both to enable like both for just making
I can ask better but also because it
will help anyone who wants to do
discovery over DNS and just giving more
like Lippe discovery options than using
the DHT cool that is some news cool any
questions okay
adding performance it in a can
yeah alright so uh so we did some more
like looking around and it looks like in
order to make I cannot like in order to
make ID performance faster we basically
just need to have a database with
asynchronous writes instead of waiting
for every time we write for the thing to
get flushed to disk you can either do
this a statement gun well we don't
absolutely need always to hack around
this just makes it simpler well so we I
I guess it's a matter of phrasing we we
definitely need this you can either do
this by just having a database that
supports asynchronous writes or you can
do this by writing a layer on top of a
synchronous database that effectively
makes it asynchronous right by like
offering stuff in between one of these
is like flip a switch and badger and the
other one is make the buffer dag part of
our API perform better you could also
you could also just try and like get
around this a little bit by putting in a
synchronous layer on top of the
synchronous one just like caching all
the transactions and like periodically
flushing them but that feels even
happier than than just making the buffer
dag better so we're gonna try and push
and the links in the in the notes
there's a link to the making the data
allowing the data stores to be
asynchronous I'm gonna try and push on
some people this week to see if we can
get movement there otherwise I guess
well just we're just gonna have to deal
with what we already have which is the
buffer Doug but it's gonna be much more
invasive to go that way I think the
correct plan is to make the perfect egg
better just in general because that will
probably help us propose what we do here
and in parallel try to find the dudes
for the phases to allow for a sickness
rights you know so like basically the
Trent affair is that the data store
which I if we what the day is for the
asynchronous rights the mid 2os decide
would buffer in the OS news about memory
pressure or and it was about to sky oh
and all that kind of stuff so with a
better schedule better outside sedatives
work on the other hand like doing this
outside the datastore allows us to
bounce calls to the US which could also
help improve it for months like it's not
entirely neither or it's kind of like
we're gonna do those performance benefit
from async we're probably gonna get some
benefit by buffering in the application
so as well nice okay anybody else any
questions are we good all right super
thank you all right migration to Martina
she's in block store this is still
pending the migrator tool will actually
being merged into ipfs repo the pull
request has been reviewed and that just
needs to nice the changes to be done and
then to be washed and released and then
then we're good to start that will
create the migration that does that does
that work and I think that actually has
already been done in our requests for it
but it just needs to be then reviewed as
well so yeah the plan is to get the
migrator the ability to do migrations
into the next release and the actual
migrations into a future at least maybe
forty one or more that is that status on
that one
any questions okay sweet so next up
we've got idea that's Mount
I think Dominic is here so okay bit swap
updates I see a duck has arrived
yeah I've just been working through some
code reviews and also came up with a
couple of tests current test plans for
its pumping test grounds and then Steven
it looks like you got an update about
parallel routes yeah we merge that to a
festmaster
there was things he did improvement this
reform I suppose on fetching programs
for clustered personally I didn't notice
any changes or well sir I didn't I
noticed some really great behavior would
like it was slow and then it just like
slowly rampant over time until was fast
I'm not sure if that was me Comcast or
something else because I was thinking oh
yeah it's like like what was it it used
to take a minute to download the prams
and then it went down to seconds so
twice as fast so this we know it's
probably too much speed up I'm assuming
more actually I think it's a better
steal em charlie
Buster but my intelligence a cool thank
you for the updates good okay moving on
to the async/await refactor I don't
think I have any news but Jetley p2p
looks like you are storming ahead yes
so the plaintext to internal crypto
refactor for the p2p and private
networking has all been merged so it's
good to go
Bosco's currently working on the peer
store refactor so it's the pure book and
then the Registrar which is going to be
part of connection manager and that's
gonna let us register like topologies
and custom topologies and stuff which is
going to be quite nice
and then the pub/sub PRS are also in
progress getting close they just need
some stuff from the registrar in the
peer store and then identify reef actors
under way that's also going to include
identified push which lupita be jeaious
hasn't supported yet so that will be in
the refactor as well and then circa
relay and discovery are slated for this
week as well
nice how many how how many left have we
got then in the p2p how many how many
repos and modules are we approaching the
finish line and some form or another
we're getting quite close like core is
the main thing that's left and then SEC
il which mkg is is working on part of
that refactor I guess cool is gonna be
pretty big but you've got a PR for that
underway right now yeah so that's that's
like a slew of PRS going on for that
Vasco is finishing up pops up and then
bash but it's also gonna be working on
the DHT this week but we're we are
getting there
very cool very exciting all right any
any questions on async awaiting okay
cool
so then we have design review proposals
we I so last week I said that I would
start a proposal thing uniting the files
API and I've been working on that I've
been writing a lot of words down and I'm
thinking about it a lot it's not quite
finished
I haven't submitted the pull request but
it's kind of nearing it but it's it's a
proposal and kind of I guess I put it
down here today just to sort of see how
gauged they're kind of what people are
feeling like is it is it a non-starter
or is it is it is it something that we
feel could could take off like if you've
got big concerns with it all it didn't
please like just get in touch with me I
see or you know slack or whatever but
I'll I'll probably get it well I need to
read through it a number of times and
see and there's a but there's a few
things I need to kind of finish off and
add but then I will submit a PR and open
it up to people to have a look through
there's a lot of kind of background
information in there as well as
identification of like what the problems
are or as I see them objectively as
possible and and some some proposals for
solutions to try and alleviate some of
the things that are happening and and
hopefully make it a whole lot better and
easier to use whilst trying to maintain
some sort of
[Music]
some sort of like similarity to what's
already there without you know changing
it beyond all recognition and trying to
keep the actual Delta for changes we'd
have to make as small as I can but
there's a couple of small things that we
feel we can do to really improve things
but there are some bigger things in
there as well so like if you're
interested in that then have a look I
will hopefully submit the proposal and
we can maybe schedule like a and maybe
the next week I'll have a like scheduled
meeting and we can kind of people who
are interested in it can we can go talk
over some of the changes and get
everyone involved who needs to have a
say in this because I obviously it's
it's it's the files API it's quarter
ipfs it's the the thing that people are
going to be interacting with most when
they use IP FS so it needs to it needs
to be good it needs to be low
streamlined and easy to use and I'm
hoping that we can maybe make it better
so yeah that's me
and then alex has a parole for improving
the agents being API would you like to
talk to that
yeah so so we have this HTTP API that
has always been a bit of an oddity in a
respect no known convention has ever
been seen before on the face of the
planet which makes it interesting to
work with if if you're a new contributor
and you've you know used to certain
conventions that other systems have and
so on and so forth that's always been
kind of annoying but it's kind of been
in the background because we've had
these API libraries in front of it I
mean you don't have to interact with it
directly that much except for a notice
that a while ago that errors don't work
in it because it uses HTTP trailers to
relay error information so if you have a
streaming interface then where with all
this async/await stuff we're moving
towards having streaming stuff
everywhere if you're in the browser
you know browser support HTTP trailers
so if you you're processing a stream and
the stream errors then the stream just
ends and you don't get an error message
or anything this has worked in node
previously because no does support HTTP
trailers but since we're moving
everything to use fetch it started to
bring browser semantics into node and
words along with those browser semantics
that means no more HTTP trailers so it
means that our error handling in node
doesn't work either
and it means that the browser has never
worked if you ever used fetch or any
kind of streaming API so I took a look
at the HTTP API and say a long time ago
when I first start working up here I
looked at it I was like why is it inside
messing around with a wrapper for it
that would kind of make it rusty
so that you can use tools to do things
like have you know
documentation generated from it and have
tools that you can then use to ping the
API and all this kind of stuff generate
clients for accepting such a never
really went anywhere but I did do a lot
of thinking about how it could all fit
together and so that has kind of
informed the design I'm proposing in
this PR
also the up
that stuff there Alan's been working on
and and his unified files API which is
kind of we've been talking about for a
while and kind of taken some of those
ideas forward and putting them into the
HTTP API which means we'll have a
smaller surface area
there'll be like more like the
interruptions that you have where there
will be simple which will shift some the
complexity onto the client but that's
kind of necessary if you don't want to
have to do lots of weird have lots of
extra arguments like the DHCP API is
kind of modeled on the go on and they go
on is modeled on the CLI and so you end
up having lots of kind of behavior that
you might not necessary want to expose
over HTTP things like like if you take a
path there's an argument to import it
recursively which makes no sense over an
HTTP API just keep sending me files like
do the recursive pausing on the client
and just keep sending request stuff like
that they're trying to remove some of
that stuff it should be simpler to to
implement simpler to understand and
simple to maintain so yeah it's in a pre
pre full review pull request state
comments welcome please do get involved
you
sounds really exciting we should sync up
and see if we what you've proposed there
is going to be difficult or compatible
with that what I've been working on for
the core Adi
hurricane young there should be I mean
there's a significant amount of
crossover probably kind of done it with
an eye to the changes that we've got
coming down the pipeline but yeah we can
we can definitely think up on that nice
okay so yeah please do get involved with
the pull requests for the HTTP API and
give it a once-over and if you were
interested in in that sort of thing that
would be super cool because it would be
nice to have have that become a little
bit more saying a little bit more what
developers expect and and yeah a bit
better at dealing with errors for
starters and yeah that would be very
cool and I will hopefully submit a pull
request to the for what I'm working on
the Uniting the files API just give you
a kind of idea this has been asked for
since I guess I think the issue the
first issue I found for it was from 2016
so it's been in the pipeline for a while
so yeah we're gonna make it better and
hopefully soon but yeah cool and so next
up where are we we I've got not lot not
a lot of questions efforts blockers
asses no blockers and ask there is
anyone got anything else they would like
to put down or say in terms of being
blocked and would like people to look at
things or anything okay any any
random questions or comments or things
how are we all feeling pretty stoked
it's exciting times all right cool and
parking lot finally a parking lot any
anything else
I saw there's an issue filed recently
about someone adding a whole bunch of
data with no hash and then it seems like
there's memory leaking I wonder if it's
related to the issue we already know
about no I think this is because we add
files with the in-memory hacker reserved
a home link we do any memory we don't
actually create a temporary everyone
does but then we should they should go
away after the queries completed right
they should I
I'm not sure what these was adding I
thought they were adding a large
directory is what they were saying
they're adding and adding out even it
crashed
I've never fair pretty no I think it was
multiple like I ran a local test just
adding things like a million times and
you'll see like it keeps growing and it
doesn't you wait a few minutes after and
it doesn't clear and I don't know if
it's related to prior issues about like
using our mock data store instead of
like going at it a little more
heavy-handed later
I think I'm guessing that we have some
internal pointer to something that's
holding things open there's like if
you're not there's going to be some long
way to go a team that has a handle or a
copy of the UM of this like in memory I
gave us were a reference to it didn't
see definitely that sounds like it might
be what's happening actually works it
also seems like we we still use a
pierced or even when we have a null data
store which seems a little awkward
we use like an in-memory Pierce store we
always use even repairs over everything
yeah yeah probably I think we need
doing probably house basically snake
bigger like a memory no actually I
thought we circuiting oh no no we're
putting a little extra that's odd
so we're creating a new node with an ill
Rico not a new memory but no Rico we
should just throw it away so yeah we
have memory leak somewhere I'm not sure
what it is it's probably because we
never actually closed in they don't know
yeah whatever actually those never know
that's the issue we just live debugging
I love it just in case because I didn't
catch it start but this is so this is
only when you're adding things with the
only hash option yes yep nice serving
the PR now all right cool
thanks everyone for coming along it's
been really fun this week as always and
have a lovely week this week and I'll
see you next time from some more core
implementations action and and it'll be
even more exciting and it has been this
today so bye everyone see you next week